l

rr] NOTES. 79

a simul] the chiasmus (very frequent in Livy] is noticeablea simul
between the two phrases helps to emphasize the simultaneousness oi the

two alarms.

3 v 511. ante...deinde] instead of primum...deinde, the usage is not
classical, and does not occur elsewhere in Livy. See notes on text.

4 qui ad prime δια] the hastati who sormed the first line in battle
order.

5 avertit1‘checlred’,lit. ‘turned away’, namely, from the fighting in
front of them. The word is used absolutely, that is, without a com·
pleting phrase. So ιιι. 19· 17 mille acces avertit avertetque, where a
se οι an equivalent must be supplied=‘put to llight' or ‘made to turn
their backs'.

ς 12. efflusi] agrees with the sense otalii in pars.

8 518. alibi] in accordance with a iavourite usage ol Livy’s=a
preposition with case oi pronoun, apud alm.

ιι 3 1⁴. mamuram] sc. esse, it would have revolted, if he had not
arrived, and would not now remain loyal it' he (should have) departed.

Young students will observa the regular Latin idiom in the tense os
abscessisset. '

Girumu 11.

¹9 Μ. ceterum] opposes eundem se &c to duce et arcein amisso ,· a
general and army had been lost, but he &c This adversative use of
ceterum, not iotrnd in Cicero and Caesar, is common in Sallust and
Livy, and commonest aiter a negative sentence.

ι ιι contuderit] an exaggeration. The defeats inflicted on Hannibal by

 

Marcellus (xxrtt. 16, xxiv. ιι), if ever inflicted (see Introduction), were
very lar from crushing. The word is poetical, but frequent in Livy.

²3 §³- et...quidem] introduce in connexion with a previous statement
the first οι concessive member oi an antithesis, the second being in·
troduced with or without an adversative particle, cf. ιι. ι. 9 et ceteri
quidem movebant (L. Tarquinium) minus; postquam Sp. Lucretius &c

25 §⁴- Numistronem] in Lucania on the borders of Apulia.

ι8 3⁶· addidit] ‘he displayed another proof of his seli-confidence'‚
lit. ‘he added another appearance of one trusting (to himself) ’.

31 erigeret] ‘rested with his right on a hill’ as we should say3 tit.
‘raised his right up on to a hill', that is, placed his right so that
part oi it extended some way up the hill.

‚Pp-4· 2 9⁰· delete r,§7. ab‘on the side of’.

 

