xnrrr] NOTES. 129

²3 secundat] ‘down the hiils’ ; the word could properly only be used of
water in this sense; it is applied to land here on the analogy of secundo
flumine and similar phrases.

24 5 Ι1. tamen] though it was less than it might have been.

27 5ο. circa] in Cicero and Caesar only used in its local sense.
circiter is classieal prose Latin for the sense of it here.

3² 5 0. continuis] ‘Immediately aster that on several consecutive days’.

p. 64. 510. institit] advancedso close up to the gates oi H.'s camp,
prope δια, that he seemed almost t'o be entering them: inferre signa,
used here quite generally of the advance of troops3 the object of the
sentence can only be to express the nearness of N ero's army to the
gates.

a ignibus tabemaadisqudse. relictis.

3 quaepars]= in ea parte castrorum quae.

6 intendat1=cantendit, not so used by Cicero.

7 511. successit] ‘advanoed up to '‚ c. 18, 5 13: the verb is used with
accus. in the sense of mounting (=ascenda). '

13 §²²- insern]cf.§1o.

¹4 518. discurrunt] the present tense after duaa acc. to the regular
idiom. This is Livy’s favourite use of the word with the indic. half
temporal, half causal (almost final here).

ro 5 to. Metapontum] if Η. made this march, it was to pick up
Hanno and his troops before proceeding north to jain his brother, as
Livy represents him as doing unimpeded by his splendidly victorious
enemies who had been sent out for the special purpose of preventing a
junction between him and Hasdrubal.

Crrrernn XLIII.

29 Placentiae] cf. c. 39, 5 11.

p. 65. 5 52. Claudinm1cfc.11‚§§rr,r3.

6 58. inplicantes] after at first attempting to mislead him by vague
replies: the present participle is conative‚ the sense of the verb is
probably derived from its frequent connection with the word errae, eg.
erroribus inplicari, dte, 11. ar. 4 tanti errares inplicant temporum.

8 5 4. sicut erant] ⁴ just as they were, with the seal unbroken ’.

14 50. ordinariis] adhering strictly to regulations: the word is not
found in Cicero or Caesar, and is intended to be technical and formal
with reference probably to the phrase extra ordinem, used of work
undertaken by the consuls outside their assigned sphere.

t. xxvu. 9

 

